There are two kinds of folks
who sit around thinking
about how to kill people:
Psychopaths
and mystery writers.
I'm the kind that pays better.
Who am I?
I'm Rick Castle.
Castle.
I really am ruggedly handsome,
aren't I?
Every writer needs inspiration.
And I found mine.
Detective Kate Beckett.
Beckett.
Aah!
Beckett?
Could you get some backup, please?
And thanks to my friendship
with the Mayor,
I get to be on her case.
Oh!
Do I look like a killer to you?
Yes, you kill my patience.
And together,
we catch killers.
I hate this case.
I know. Isn't it great?
Mom.
Mom, are you here?
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
(Keypabeeping)
Come on.
Come on, mom. Answer.
(Cell phone rings)
(Ring)
(Gasps)
(Grunts) Oh!
Aah!
(Martha) Oh, hello.
Shouldn't you be
in school already?
School doesn't start
for another hour.
Yeah. If you were hoping to do the walk
of shame in private, you're outta luck.
Oh, don't be silly. I just
didn't realize how early it was.
I have been a bit distracted
this morning.
Do you mean distracted,
or hypnotized by that giant rock
on your finger?!
(Laughs)
Wow.
Did Chet Palaburn propose?
Uh, Alexis, I think it's about time
we start calling him Uncle Chet.
Oh, now wait a minute.
Wait a minute, you two.
I am not engaged, all right?
Yes, Chet did propose
last night,
and I told him, you know,
I needed time to think about it,
and he insisted I keep the ring
while I make up my mind, so...
Mm. Smart man.
Mm.
Diamonds can be
very persuasive.
I can hear it now, whispering...
(Whispers) "Keep me. Keep me."
(Laughs) Unfortunately, now that
Chet has upped the ante,
as they say,
I'm going to have to decide
whether I'm in or I'm out.
I thought you loved Chet.
Oh, I do love him, darling.
I really do. I j--I...
Well, you know, it's just
that for me, it's, uh--
the thrill is gone.
Yes,
and it's been gone
for quite a while.
Although this little fella
did bring it back
for about ten minutes.
(Chuckles)
(Laughs)
If he's not the one, then I
guess you shouldn't marry him.
That's never stopped her before.
And we miss having you here all the time.
Aw.
Don't we, dad?
(Martha and Alexis) Dad?
(Cell phone rings)
Mm.
Saved by the Bell.
(Beeps)
Ah, it's Beckett.
Castle.
Hey, did I hear you right?
Our victim is Vivien Marchand,
the psychic medium?
You've heard of her?
Yeah. She was very popular
in certain Manhattan circles.
Huh.
Matter of fact, she did a reading for me
at a society party
about eight years ago.
It was pretty extraordinary.
"Extraordinary"?
She got everything right.
You know what?
Come to think of it,
she told me
that a beautiful woman
would one day move into my loft
and stay with me forever.
She neglected to mention
it was my mother.
(Ryan chuckles)
How did she die?
Stabbed in the back of the neck
with an ice pick,
and then stuffed into the sofa.
So she didn't see that coming.
(Beckett)
When did she die?
She's in full rigor.
I'd say yesterday afternoon
is the approximate time of death.
(Esposito) I got a maintenance worker
said he saw a man
leaving the back door
of Vivien's office around 2:30
yesterday afternoon.
Description?
Tall, Caucasian and tough looking.
All right, Ryan, check Vivien's calendar,
and let's interview
her clients from yesterday.
Maybe one of them
saw the guy.
What I don't get is,
why put her in the couch?
(Lanie) She was alive
when she went in.
These scratches on her face
indicate that she tried to move.
I'm gonna get her
back the lab.
She's got a notation here
for 3:00 P.M. yesterday.
It just says "T.J."
And nothing else?
Nope. Maybe T.J. was a ghost
coming to visit.
Mediums are the ones that can
see ghosts, right, castle?
Yes, psychics can tell the future.
Mediums can tell the future
and talk to the dead.
That's like saying
that psychics are con artists,
and mediums are con artists
and charlatans.
I mean, in the end,
they're all just fakes.
You sound pretty certain
of yourself.
That's because
when I started as a cop,
I wasted a lot of time on
clairvoyants calling tip lines
with information
that never led to anything.
I mean, I'm surprised
you're so gullible.
I'm not saying
I can speak with the dead.
I'm just willing to admit that
there are people in this world
who are more sensitive than me.
Now that's not hard to believe.
Walked right into that one.
Mm-hmm.
(Beckett) Ms. Marchand,
do you know of anyone
that might have wanted
to harm your mother?
(Sniffles) She was
a very spiritual person.
She didn't have any enemies.
A witness saw a tall,
dark-haired man
leaving here
around 2:30 yesterday.
Does that sound like
anyone your mother knows?
When was the last time
you two talked?
Around 1:00.
She said she had
her last client of the day,
and then she was gonna spend
the afternoon in meditation.
Do you know
the client's name?
No. It was a mother
and a daughter.
Their names should be
in her book.
Well, there was a notation
in her calendar
at 3:00--
the initials "T.J."
Does that mean anything
to you?
No. I'm sorry
I can't be more helpful.
Hey, I remember this case.
A guy's wife goes missing,
he seems genuinely distraught,
and then the cops find out
he had a girlfriend
and that his marriage
was on the rocks.
Yeah.
Did your mother
help on that case?
Yeah, she had a vision of him
at a local bar
with this pretty blonde
named Amber,
so she went to the police
with the information.
That's when they started
looking at him as a suspect.
And then what happened?
He went to prison.
That case really
put my mom on the map.
Did your mother continue
offering the police help after that?
Yes, all over the country.
My mother helped put away
over a dozen people
in the last ten years.
So here's the list of all
the people that Penny Marchand
claims her mom
helped to convict.
Let's see if any of them
are out of jail
and still holding a grudge.
On it.
Vivien's 1:00 Monday clients
are here.
They say they got a good look
at the dark-haired guy
who was in her office.
Names are
Paula and Marina Casillas.
"Casillas"?
That's a good name.
Hard to possessive pluralize,
though.
(Imitates Ricardo Montalban)
The Casillases' car
has broken down,
so they will be late
for the symphony.
The casillas--s--
casillases-es...
They're waiting for you
in the lounge.
All right. Thanks.
Usually, we're her
last clients on Monday,
but when we left,
there was a man there
waiting for Vivien.
She seemed surprised to see him,
like he wasn't expected.
Oh, and he seemed upset.
I could tell.
Could you describe him?
He was wearing dark clothes.
He had black hair,
going gray at the temples.
Oh, and he had a scar
on his face.
I think
she called him Alfred.
Or was it Albert?
Okay. Well, thank you, both.
You've been very helpful.
How long had you
been going to see Vivien?
Four months.
My husband Emilio
passed away in April.
We both miss him so much.
So she was helping you
get closure.
Yes.
Even at our first session,
Vivien...
Already knew so much
about my Emilio.
Like what?
Well, she knew
he made vitamins for a living.
She knew
he loved arroz con pollo.
She also knew
he was a workaholic.
And that he even died
at the office.
Vivien said
she thought daddy
had something very important
to tell us.
She was going to commune
with his spirit last night.
Now we'll never know.
You're not gonna believe this.
Vivien's daughter is pretty sure
that "Albert" is Albert Moreno.
Albert "The Blade" Moreno?
Former muscle
for the Spolano crime family.
So Vivien helped put him away.
Mnh-mnh. He's her client.
Vivien told Albert
that if he if he invested in
a New Jersey real estate deal,
true happiness would be his.
The deal fell through a month
ago. He lost everything.
Ouch. You give a guy
like that bad advice,
he'll see to it you are
sleeping with the fishes.
Or you get stabbed in the neck
wi an ice pick...
And stuffed in a couch.
♪ Castle 3x02 ♪
He's Dead, She's Dead
Original Air Date on September 27, 2010
-- sync, corrected by elderman --
-- for www.addic7ed.com --
(Castle) Whoa.
Albert Moreno
is sure living large
for a low-level mobster.
Well, I guess mob money
goes a little farther
when you don't pay taxes
on it.
And yet, for Albert,
not quite far enough.
Loreen Carter
from real smart real estate.
This house
is a Tuscan jewel,
and it's perfect
for a young couple.
We're here for Mr. Moreno.
Yes. I went to see her.
Three months ago,
Vivien told me I should invest
in some real estate deal.
She knew that I had...
Quit my day job.
I was looking to set myself up
for retirement.
She told you the investment
would bring you true happiness,
but instead,
you lost it all.
I was...
Upset.
And then she canceled
our last appointment
and stopped returning
my phone calls.
And then you decided
to pay her a visit
yesterday around 2:00?
I told her, I'm on my way
to meet my broker.
I'm selling my home because I
can't pay my mortgage no more.
And then what happened,
Mr. Moreno? Did you get angry?
Did things get physical?
No. But I was mad.
And when I'm mad,
sometimes people get nervous.
(Gulps)
She begged me
to let the universe
sort itself out,
and she said she was late
for an appointment Uptown.
Did she say with whom?
No. By then, I was late
to meet my broker,
so I left, about 2:30.
And just like that...
The universe?
It sorted itself out.
I'm--I'm sorry.
I don't understand.
Turns out, my, uh,
broker's partner
is, uh, Loreen here,
my High School sweetheart.
(Kisses)
(Loreen chuckles)
We broke up in '82, but we
never got over each other.
The minute I laid eyes
on her again,
I haven't left her side,
and I never been so happy.
(Castle)
So... Vivien was right.
Investing
in the real estate deal
brought you to bankruptcy,
which, in turn,
brought you to Loreen
and true happiness.
Extraordinary.
(Sighs)
(Castle)
So what do you think?
Well, I think it's possible
he might have killed Vivien
before the universe
righted itself.
Not about that.
About them--Albert and Loreen.
I mean, star-crossed lovers
reunited by fate.
You mean
reunited by coincidence.
Oh, let me guess.
You don't believe in fate.
Soul mates?
No.
Unicorns, fairies,
double rainbows?
Didn't you ever think your dolls
used to get up at night
and play with your toys?
Sorry.
Mm. Let me guess.
You were one of those
annoying 6 year olds
who stopped believing
in Santa Claus
because you figured out
he couldn't travel
faster than the speed of light.
I was 3,
and we didn't have a chimney.
(Esposito) How'd it go
with Moreno?
My gut says it's not him.
But we still have to
look into his alibi.
Oh, so you don't believe
in fate,
yet your "gut"
has magical properties.
That's cool, Scully.
We got calls out on most
of Vivien's dirty dozen.
We should hear back tomorrow.
Meanwhile, we've been
going through her client files--
trips to the hall of records,
Internet searches, even got
ahold of some autopsy files.
Pretty intimate stuff, too.
You see, castle?
Research--that's how
she made people believe
that she has a gift.
And I bet that she even
looked into you eight years ago
when she went to that party.
And I bet she looked up
Paula Casillas as well.
That's how she knew
that her husband Emilio
had a vitamin business.
Is that also how she knew
that Albert Moreno would find
true love through bankruptcy?
She got lucky.
Oh. Or maybe it's just
that she couldn't get
everything she needed
from her abilities alone
and needed to do
a little extra digging.
I have
a fantastic imagination,
yet I still do
a ton of research
when I write a book.
Surrounded by skeptics.
It's called
being a cop, bro.
(Alexis) Oh,
great and powerful spirits,
tell us, should Gram break up
with Chet Palaburn?
Ugh!
This thing must be broken.
Well, luckily, I don't need
the spirits to tell me
when it's time
to say good-bye.
Good-bye, my love.
What if you're being too hasty?
Relationships take work,
right?
No, no, no, love is not
about work. Trust me.
It's about passion.
It's about chemistry, romance.
It's about
your heart pounding faster
because you can't wait to see her.
Can either of you look back
on a relationship
that ended
because the thrill was gone,
and admit that maybe,
you gave up on love too soon?
Dad, you're back
with your ex-wife.
Ooh. No, she's right.
Yeah, with Gina.
The thrill was long,
long gone.
Now... it is back
with a vengeance.
Of course, it brought along
its friends,
high maintenance
and shopaholic.
No, I'm sorry, honey.
I'm sorry.
But it's just--it's over.
I know it.
(Castle) Hey.
Any news
on the dirty dozen?
Oh, most are
still in prison,
but we're thinking
this line of investigation
may not get us anywhere.
Why not?
I called around to a couple
of lead detectives,
just to check out the level
of Vivien's involvement.
They say, they've never even
heard of her.
She exaggerated her involvement
in these cases
in order to build
her reputation back up.
Or maybe the cops
didn't want to admit
that they had... a psychic
actually helping them.
I mean, what police Detective
would willingly acknowledge
that a layperson is
as talented at solving crimes
as she is?
Vivien Marchand...
Is not a psychic.
I'd bet my badge on it.
Don't throw those dice
until you take a look at this.
"New York homicide division
Detective squad."
It's from Vivien Marchand.
Yeah,
it arrived this morning,
postmarked Monday,
the day she died.
That is her letterhead.
"To whom it may concern, I feel
that my murder is imminent."
(Squeals)
"And although
I have no idea yet
"where or when
this event will occur,
"I have had a vision
of my death.
"In the vision,
I could not breathe.
"I saw a man dressed in black,
the number 7-5-1-8,
"and I could hear
a furious pounding
"from what seemed to be
far away.
I'm sorry I cannot be
more specific"--
the psychic predicted
her own murder!
Or the killer wrote this
in order to throw us off.
Run it. Maybe we'll
get lucky with the prints.
Do you think she really--
no.
Yeah, me neither.
Hey, Lanie.
What do we got?
We've got cause of death--
blood loss and asphyxiation.
And I'm officially putting
the time of death
between 5:00 and 7:00 P.M.
on Monday evening.
So that rules out
Albert Moreno. What else?
There were no scratches
on the ice pick blade.
It was brand-new,
probably bought specialist for the  occasion.
And her cell phone
was in her hand.
She may have tried to dial
for help before she expired.
The digits match the beginning
of her daughter's phone number.
1-718-55--
7-1-8-5?
Those are the numbers
from the letter.
They're in a different order,
but those are the same numbers.
Oh, go on. Go on.
Say "coincidence."
Coincidence.
I'm just saying,
it's irrefutable, that's all.
It is not irrefutable,
Castle.
As a matter of fact,
it is completely refutable.
Okay, go on. Refute me.
Okay, how about this?
Vivien is dialing
her daughter's number.
Our killer comes in,
stabs her in the neck,
picks up the phone,
drops it into the sofa
after her,
and then puts the numbers
into the letter
along with the rest
of the fake predictions.
Refuted.
No one types a number
into a cell phone anymore.
Preliminaries on the letter
aren't giving us much.
There are no usable prints
and no D.N.A.
And the pick up at the mail drop
in Vivien's building
is 6:00 P.M.
Time enough for the killer
to have written it
and mailed it
after she was dead.
But why? Why go through
all that trouble?
To keep us spinning
wild theories
and chasing after
men dressed in black
instead of following
hard evidence.
I mean, come on, Castle.
The letter's not even signed.
Actually, I talked to
Penny Marchand about that.
She says it's possible
her mother
would type a letter
and not sign it
in case her prediction
was wrong.
She wouldn't want anybody
selling her mistakes
on the Internet. (Laughs)
But we still can't prove
that Vivien actually wrote the letter.
Until her other predictions come true.
You know, I'm just...
Good. You're back.
I think I got something.
Remember Vivien's
first big case?
Yeah, the guy
with the missing wife
and the blonde girlfriend named Amber.
His name is Steve Adams.
Unis are bringing him up
right now.
They never found
his wife's body.
He did seven years
for second degree.
They released him
two months ago on parole,
only after he agreed to wear
an anklet
with a tracking device.
So I called his P.O.,
and he sent over this.
The GPS readout puts Steve
at Vivien's address
Monday afternoon.
So Vivien finishes with Paula
and Marina Casillas at 2:00,
Albert Moreno exists out
the back door at 2:30,
and now it's time for her
3:00 P.M. with T.J.
Steve Adams was there
from 1:36 to 2:48,
waiting for his opportunity.
So he waits there
until she's alone,
jumps her, stabs her, and then
stuffs her in the couch.
(Man) This is harassment!
(Man) Take it easy.
I haven't done anything wrong!
(Man) Right through here.
Calm down.
Ah. He's wearing all black.
It's gotta be a coincidence.
Or black is the new guilty.
I didn't kill her.
You were the last one
to see her alive.
The GPS on your anklet indicates
that you were at Vivien's office
for over an hour
the day that she was killed.
Yeah, but it's not
what you think.
Last week, I got a call
from a guy named Cody Donnelly.
He's a Reality TV Producer.
He said he could help me clear my name.
How was he gonna do that?
The day after
my wife disappeared,
Vivien Marchand told the cops
she had a vision of me in a bar,
with my girlfriend Amber.
Which was true.
That I was there? Yeah.
But then she started saying
she had other visions--
visions that I murdered my wife,
which I did not do--
but she was right once,
about Amber,
so everyone believed her.
Only Vivien
had lied about that, too.
What do you mean?
Cody donnelly told me
he had proof that Vivien
was a customer in the same bar
where I took Amber that day.
So she saw me, all right,
with her own eyes.
There was nothing psychic
about it, nothing.
So you figured if you could
prove that Vivien was a fraud,
that maybe
people would believe
that you hadn't
killed your wife as well.
I'm an innocent man,
but thanks to Vivien,
everyone in the state
believed that I killed my wife.
She got a book deal.
I got 7 to 10.
And what was in it
for Cody Donnelly?
He wanted me and Vivien to be
in his reality show,
"you've Ruined My Life."
Oh, I love that show.
I-it's where people unleash
their righteous fury
against those
who have wronged them.
Usually ends in tears and a hug.
Cody and me,
we went to her office
with a camera crew.
We sat outside in the van
for almost an hour.
When she finally came out,
I confronted her.
I called her a fake. Cody told
me to make it big, so I did.
And what did Vivien do?
Mostly she freaked.
Then she got in a cab
and took off.
Cody dropped me at my apartment
on Second and 45th,
and I never saw her again.
GPS puts Adams
at his apartment
at the time
that Vivien was murdered.
Find me some witnesses
that can verify that.
You don't trust
the GPS?
No, those things
can be tampered with.
So Vivien told her daughter
that she was gonna be
at the office all afternoon,
and then at 2:45,
she takes a cab and leaves
to see T.J.,
whoever that is.
Let's get ahold of Steve Adams'
producer, Cody Donnelly.
I want to see him
and his footage of Vivien
first thing in the morning.
You got it.
(Door opens)
(Door closes)
I am so glad
that you are home.
You would not believe
the day I had.
Oh, I think
I got you beat.
Mother, what's wrong?
And why are you still
engaged to Uncle Chet?
Oh, Richard.
(Exhales)
Chet is dead.
What?
How?
I went to his apartment
this morning,
and his kids are there--
Boomer and Lotte.
They said...
He'd had a stroke
in his sleep.
(Voice breaking)
I mean, God, I...
He was so young, and...
Mother, I am so sorry.
Mm.
So...
(Inhales and exhales deeply)
Boomer and Lotte
see the ring.
Naturally they assume that
their father and I are engaged,
and now they're worried about
how I'll handle the news.
And, uh,
so I spent
the whole day with them,
receiving visitors.
And they kept telling me...
How happy their father had been
since we'd been together,
and how I was...
The love of his life.
And there I was,
about to break his heart.
Mm.
And now they want me
to give the eulogy.
I don't think I can.
Oh, Richard.
Mom, I'm sorry.
I know.
I'm sorry.
It's just so... (Sniffles)
(Man) Go, go, go, go.
There she is.
All right. I see her.
Go get her. Let's do this.
You remember me?
Vivien Marchand.
remember me?.
You told the cops that you had
a vision of me in a bar.
Is that the footage from Cody Donnelly?
We have evidence that you were
in the same bar that day.
Yep. He's waiting for you
in interrogation.
(Vivien) No,
i don't know you...
Where's castle?
Oh, he had some personal issues
he had to deal with.
What do we got?
So far, it's going just like
Steve Adams says.
Vivien comes out,
he gets in her face.
And I can prove it...
Get him outta here...
She gets in the cab.
And we get a partial on the license plate.
I'll run it down.
See if I can find out
where the taxi dropped her off.
Turn it off. Turn it off.
Detective Beckett.
(Clicks key, video stops)
Hi, Penny.
What are you doing here?
Is there somewhere
we could talk privately?
What's wrong?
Did you remember something?
No.
It's not that.
I'm afraid I wasn't
completely honest with you
the other day.
The fact is,
I have a little bit
of what my mother did.
Sometimes I have dreams
that are meaningful.
Last night,
I had a dream about you.
Okay.
And I can't really explain why,
but I feel very strongly
that I'm supposed to
tell you something,
something important. Are you ready?
I'm ready.
Alexander.
Alexander?
Alexander. I don't know who he
is or what he means to you.
I don't know any Alexander.
You will. You will meet an Alexander.
And he will be
extremely important to you.
At some future date,
he may save your life.
Okay.
Um, good to know.
Thank you, Detective.
Thank you, Penny.
Candid reality gold, mate.
Cody Donnelly presents--
famous mystery writer
follows a tough but beautiful
New York cop around
"for research."
Ah, she'd never go for it.
She's a real b--
Mr. Donnelly,
I appreciate you coming...
What are you doing here?
Uh, for the record, I was
gonna say "big rule follower."
I was not discussing the case.
I swear to God.
Uh, "Naked Heat"
comes out tomorrow,
and Cody here
was admiring the billboards.
Is that your smoking-hot
silhouette on the posters then?
No.
So, Mr. donnelly,
where did you go
after you left
Vivien's office?
After we got
all that great footage,
I dropped Steve off
at his place
around, uh, well, 3:30 or so.
That was just before
Vivien Marchand called me.
Really?
And what did she want?
To save what was left
of her career.
I mean, she knew the film
I had on her was damaging.
She said if I buried it,
she'd give me something better.
Better like what?
Better like murder.
You see, Vivien said she was
hot on a killer.
She said it was bigger
than Steve Adams.
This time, there was a body.
She was gonna let me film
the moment that she confronted
the soon-to-be accused.
She said that she had to confirm
one last suspicion,
and that I had to be ready to go
at a moment's notice
'cause we were gonna catch a killer.
And when was this confrontation
gonna take place?
Straightaway. I got an urgent
text about two hours later.
I-I gathered up my crew,
including security,
thinking this was it.
And then when I called her back,
no answer.
I'm guessing
she was already dead.
Any news on Vivien's hunt
for a murderer?
Well, she had several clients
who came to her
because of unsolved crimes
in the family,
but the ones
that we talked to
said that their cases
are just as cold now
as when they first came to her.
(Ryan) Hey, I found the cab.
The driver says he took Vivien
to a residence
at 112th and Riverside.
The doorman says he remembers
Vivien going up to apartment 2C.
It's rented
to Nick and Toni Johnston.
Toni Johnston.
T.J.
If Vivien came to see
Toni Johnston the day she died,
it had to have been about
something important,
like this killer
she was chasing.
But you'll probably say
it was just a coincidence.
Castle, why is it
so important to you
that I believe
all this stuff
about fates and psychics
and Santa Claus?
(Rings doorbell)
Because...
If you don't believe in even
the possibility of magic,
you'll never, ever find it.
Can I help you?
Toni?
I'm Detective Kate Beckett,
and this is Richard Castle.
Oh, my God. Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
I'm so stressed out.
I can't believe
this is happening.
So you know
that Vivien was murdered?
When I saw the paper yesterday,
I nearly puked up my oatmeal.
Why did Vivien come
to visit you on Monday?
Look, this is all
very personal and private,
and it involves my sex life.
Will you promise
to keep it confidential?
I--
absolutely.
Okay, earlier this year,
I did a terrible thing.
I had an affair
with my husband's boss.
Very discreet--
no one ever knew about it.
That's why Vivien called me.
She knew about the affair?
She called me out of the blue.
She knew we met
at the company Christmas party,
that we used to rendezvous
at the Starburst Hotel,
everything.
Extraordinary.
I know, right?
I mean, my mind
was totally blown.
An affair?
Mrs. Johnston, did Vivien
ever talk to you about murder?
No. She just told me she knew
how I had cheated
on Nick, my husband,
and then she asked me
a lot of questions about him.
What kind of questions?
She asked if he had a temper,
and if I felt safe.
She was sure Nick did know
about the affair.
Vivien said
the spouse always knows.
Did she ever say
how she knew all of this,
all of this
incredibly personal information,
the details of which
could not be readily be found
at a hall of records
or through an Internet search?
Oh, yeah.
The guy I was cheating with?
He told her everything.
You know, I'm gonna
have to speak with him.
Oh, oh, you can't.
I mean, you can't.
He's dead. That's why
we stopped seeing each other.
He died last April.
Heart attack.
You're telling me
that your dead lover
told Vivien about your affair?
That's right.
She said Emilio came to her
in a dream.
Emilio?
Emilio Casillas.
Your lover
was Emilio Casillas?
(Slurping)
Well?
(Straw squeaks)
(Sighs)
Emilio Casillas' autopsy file
makes for
some very interesting reading.
But do you think
he was murdered?
According to the M.E.'s notes,
in addition to
the cause of death, which was
massive heart failure...
Mm-hmm.
Casillas showed signs
of alopecia,
and his fingernails
were thinning.
Which means what,
exactly?
I'd have to exhume the body
and run some tests,
but it could be
toxic overdose of selenium.
And what's selenium?
It's a mineral that's
naturally found in the body,
and in small amounts,
is good for you.
They even sometimes add it
to diet pills, health drinks.
But too much of it
can be poisonous.
Health drinks.
Maybe it was also
in the vitamins
that the Casillases made.
So that would mean
it would be at the factory.
Vivien told Toni
that her husband knew
about the affair
with Emilio Casillas.
So Toni's husband Nick works
at the Casillases' company.
He would have easy access
to the selenium and to Emilio.
And didn't
the Casillases' daughter
say that her father died
in the office?
That's probably where
he received the fatal dose..
So Nick Johnston figures out his wife
is sleeping with his boss...
Mm-hmm.
And he poisons him.
And then Nick discovers
that Vivien's on to him,
and kills her, too.
Hey. So I just spoke to,
uh, Nick Johnston's Foreman.
He said
that Nick clocked out early
the day that Vivien died,
at 5:00.
But his wife said he didn't
get home till at least 7:00.
Well, that would've been
plenty of time for him
to get to Vivien's office,
murder her, write the letter,
all before the mail
was picked up.
But how did he find out
that Vivien talked to Toni?
Toni wouldn't have told him.
Oh, Toni didn't.
But Vivien did.
The Foreman said that Nick
asked for the time off
after he was visited
by a woman, a woman who looked
a lot like Vivien Marchand.
So Vivien was putting
her plan into action.
She'd bring Nick down
to her office,
then she'd call Cody Donnelly,
have him bring his camera crew.
She would confront Nick about
Emilio Casillas' murder,
capture it all on film.
Vivien was about to solve
Emilio's murder,
and then be returned
to her former glory
as New York's most famous
psychic medium.
It's a pretty bold move.
But how did she get on to
Emilio's murder
in the first place
How many times do I have to say it?
She was
a... (Whispers) Psychic.
I'm sorry. What?
(Normal voice) Psychic.
Or...
Maybe just very intuitive.
According to Vivien's notes,
Paula said Emilio had been
working longer hours
in the months
before his death.
She wrote "affair?"
She also wrote this.
Starburst Hotel.
That's the closest place to Emilio's
office that rents by the hour.
The manager there said
Vivien came by last week.
He confirmed to Vivien
that the lovebirds had been
regulars early this year,
and she gave him 200 bucks
for his trouble.
Okay, but how does Vivien
go from "affair" in general
to "affair
with Toni Johnston"?
That, my friends,
is a pretty big leap.
Yeah, uh, that is
until you see the picture.
This is
from Vivien's research.
This is Toni in the red dress,
and Emilio next to her,
at the company's
last Christmas party.
Pretty cozy, huh?
Where did she get this?
Oh, there's a bulletin board
at the Casillases'
vitamin factory
where employees post pictures.
She could've taken it
from there.
So Vivien suspects
that Emilio is a cheater.
She gets ahold
of his autopsy file,
starts thinking that maybe
his cheating got him killed,
and she starts doing
her usual research
to prove her theory.
And all of this investigation
leads her right back
to Nick Johnston.
She had it all worked out...
Right up until
that awkward moment
where Nick Johnston stabbed her
in the neck with an ice pick
and fed her to the couch.
You got the wrong guy.
I didn't kill that psychic.
We know she came to see you.
Yeah, she said she needed
to talk to me in private,
said it was urgent, had
something to do with my wife,
so I punched out early
and went Uptown to her office.
And what did you do
when you got there?
Nothing.
The door was locked.
I pounded on it for ten minutes.
Nobody answered.
I figured she was
blowing me off, so I went home.
That's
a pretty convenient story.
It's the truth.
Okay. Why don't we start
talking about Emilio Casillas?
What about him?
You knew that he was
sleeping with your wife.
They thought they were being
so careful, but yeah, I knew.
So what did you do?
Nothing.
Seriously, Nick?
Do you actually
expect me to believe
that you just sat by
and let your boss
take your wife
away from you?
Do you think I'm that dumb?
(Lowered voice)
She's not that dumb.
(Sighs) I guess
it doesn't matter now.
I...
When I found out,
I went to Emilio
and I asked him
to stop seeing her.
(Normal voice) And what happened?
He said no.
He was in love with her.
I threatened to tell his wife,
and he just said,
"do what you gotta do."
So I decided that I wasn't gonna
do his dirty work for him.
If he wanted to leave
his wife of 30 years,
then he should just be a man
and do it himself.
But I wanted
to save my marriage,
so I kept my mouth shut.
Two weeks later,
Emilio was dead.
And you did nothing
to help that along,
is that what you're saying?
Help what along?
He had a heart attack.
The stress of being a lying,
cheating asshat finally did him in.
Penny Marchand is here.
She says it's urgent.
(Beckett)
Penny, what is it?
Detective, I have something
important to tell you.
Oh, Penny, is this about
the mystery man?
Because I really don't know
any Alexander.
Alexander?
Yeah, I'll tell you about it later.
Penny, I'm in the middle
of a very important--
Detective, you have to
listen to me.
I know
who murdered my mother.
So let me just...
Get this straight.
You're telling me
that you had a dream
that your mother was murdered
by the Freemasons.
In the dream, I was
having dinner with my mother
in a Masonic Hall.
She was very concerned.
She kept pointing to men
around the room
and saying,
"ask the Masons what happened.
That's the only way
you'll get closure."
Where are we?
Steve Adams alibi checked out.
What about Nick johnston?
Well, I told him not to take
any trips out of town
until we get this sorted out.
Well, the good news is,
with this Freemasons lead,
we have a whole new crop of suspects.
(Esposito and Ryan) Freemasons?
(Beckett) Ignore him.
So Paula and Marina Casillas...
If they knew
that Emilio was cheating,
that would be motive.
Maybe they found out that Vivien
was investigating his death.
But they were
Vivien's clients.
Why would murderers go
to a psychic for closure?
They also have an alibi for
the evening Vivien was killed.
Uniforms canvassed
the restaurant
where they were dining
with friends.
They were there from 5:00 P.M.
till after 7:00.
Was this restaurant
anywhere near Vivien's office?
Yeah, around the corner.
New place. Uh, Mason's.
"Ask the Masons, and they
will give you closure."
Let's not get carried away.
Ask the Masons, please.
Just this once.
(Whispers) Believe.
You know what's going on here?
No, not really.
Me neither.
No matter what happens,
we will never
speak of this again.
(Clicks cell phone open)
(Keypad beeping)
Hello.
This is Detective Kate Beckett
with the NYPD.
Could I speak with the owner,
please?
Hello, Mr. Mason?
I have a couple of questions
to ask you.
Mrs. Casillas,
whose idea was it to go
and visit Vivien Marchand
in the first place?
We have had a very long day.
Please answer the question.
It was my idea.
Mother thought
it cost too much,
but I missed daddy so much that
I was willing to try anything.
And when she knew
so many private things
about your father?
It was almost
like being with him,
like he was in the room with us.
The night that Vivien Marchand
was murdered,
the two of you went to dinner
with friends at Mason's.
That's right.
It's a new place.
My mother wanted to try it.
The waiter confirmed
that you were there
from 5:00 until 7:30.
How was your meal? Did you
order wine with dinner?
Yes.
No, I mean, they don't have
a liquor license yet,
so you bring your own.
So you brought your own bottle
of wine with you, then?
No.
Mother went out to the liquor
store and brought us a bottle.
She was gone about 20 minutes.
And what time was that?
5:15 maybe.
What's this all about?
Paula, we went
to the liquor store.
You didn't buy
that bottle of wine at 5:15.
According to this receipt,
you bought it at 3:12.
And at the same time,
you bought an ice pick.
I don't understand.
You bought that bottle of wine,
and then you put it aside,
and then at 5:15,
you left the restaurant and went
straight to Vivien's Offiice
and murdered her.
Then you went and you retrieved
the bottle of wine.
You returned
to the restaurant.
You had dinner with
your daughter and your friends.
(Marina) That's crazy.
Mom, tell them.
Why would she do something like that?
(Castle) To cover up another murder.
Your father's.
Did you figure out
that Emilio was cheating
or did he tell you?
He told me...
That he hamet someone...
That she was young
and beautiful...
And that I was
just a boring old lady.
I took some selenium
from the factory,
and... every morning,
I put a little bit
in his coffee.
Oh, my God. Mom...
When you wanted
to go see Vivien,
I went along to humor you,
but... she knew things
that she shouldn't
have known.
And then when she told you
that Emilio wanted
to tell you
something important...
And she said she was going to
spend the evening
communing with his spirit...
The cheating son of a bitch
was gonna tell on me.
After everything
that he had done,
I couldn't let that happen.
I had to kill her
to stop him.
(Pounds table)
Mother, stop talking.
We want a lawyer.
Paula Casillas
has lawyered up.
He's already trying
to suppress her confession.
Will that work?
You know, I doubt it,
but Paula's done talking.
Did you ask her
who wrote the letter?
You know,
I didn't get a chance,
so I guess it'll have to
remain a mystery.
Uh, actually, not quite.
Do you remember
the last clue,
the sound of knocking from far away?
Mm-hmm.
That would've been
Nick Johnston.
He said he pounded on that door
for quite some time
before he finally gave up
and went away.
Vivien was already dead.
Yeah, but Paula could've
still been in the office
waiting for him to leave,
she would've heard the knocking
just like she saw the phone,
just like she saw Albert Moreno,
who was probably
dressed in black,
so she just put it into
the letter to throw us off.
Hmm.
Only according to your timeline
on the murder board,
by the time Nick
got to the office at 5:45,
Paula was back
at the restaurant,
so the office was empty,
except, of course,
for Vivien.
♪
Oh, before I forget...
What did Penny say
about Alexander?
Oh, nothing.
Just some silly stuff that
didn't really make any sense.
Why?
Because my middle name
is Alexander.
I thought your middle name
was Edgar.
Been perusing
the personal section
of the Richard Castle website
again, have we?
No, I changed my middle name
to Edgar for Edgar Allan Poe
back when I changed
my last name to Castle.
My given name is
Richard Alexander Rodgers.
What a coincidence, huh?
♪
(woman)
♪ it's no surprise ♪
♪ I'm here tonight ♪
I think that was
a lovely service.
And if I may say,
your speech was the best.
Oh, well, thank you
for writing it. Pfft.
And I think, you know,
between the two of us,
we managed to capture
the essence of Chet.
Yes.
And Boomer and Lotte--
very, very gracious
about taking the ring back
and the whole... oh.
Oh, God.
I feel terrible.
You know...
You really have nothing
to feel guilty about.
Oh, Richard, please.
No, if anything,
by telling Chet you wanted
to think about getting engaged,
you gave him
one more day of hope.
But now he knows.
He's up there, I assume,
and he knows everything.
He knows he gave his heart
to a woman who is shallow
and a little cowardly
and...
Didn't really deserve him.
♪ Like all the colors ♪
♪ to the city down... ♪
Move over.
What?
Come here.
Oh, honey. I-I don't have--
no, go.
Now you can ask Chet
anything you want to know.
♪ To plunge down in pain ♪
♪ is more than possible ♪
Chet...
Darling, do you forgive me?
♪
There. "Yes."
Now you know.
Oh!
You moved it.
Yes, I did.
(Exhales)
And let me tell you
something else.
Chet was nobody's fool.
He knew you, all of you.
And he loved you.
I am sure wherever he is now,
he still does.
♪
(blows air)
Come on.
Get some sleep.
Okay.
♪
Richard.
Whatever mistakes
I've made in my life,
I raised a good man.
♪
-- sync, corrected by elderman --
-- for www.addic7ed.com --
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org